The next security mechanism that we can implement on our access layer switches is DAI, Dynamic ARP
Inspection.
Before you see what that does, let's have a quick review of what ARP does. ARP is
the Address
Resolution Protocol.
We covered this in detail already.
You should know this already.
So in the example, we've got PC1 over on the left with IP address 10.10.10.10 and MAC address
1.1.1.
And it's wanting to communicate with its default gateway at 10.10.10.1.
So it needs to send out an ARP request to find out what its default gateway's MAC address is.
So it sends out an ARP request saying I'm 10.10.10.10, I'm looking for
10.10.10.1.
What's your MAC address? That comes into the switch.
It's broadcast traffic.
So it is flooded out
all ports. It reaches the router on the right and
also the PC on the bottom. The PC on the bottom is not IP address 10.10.10.1,
so it will just silently discard the packet, But the router is so it will send back an ARP reply saying I'm
10.10.10.1, and my MAC address is 2.2.2. PC1
will then update its ARP cache to say 10.10.10.1 is available at 2.2.2.
R1 will also learn that PC1
10.10.10.10
is available with the MAC address of 1.1.1.
And then when we have traffic between the PC and its router, it comes from 10.10.10.10
going to 10.10.10.1, source MAC is 1.1.1 on the PC going to a destination MAC
of 2.2.2 on the router. And when the router sends traffic back, we just flip that around.
So it comes from a source IP address of 10.10.10.1 going to a destination of 10.10.10.10,
source MAC is 2.2.2 and the destination
MAC is 1.1.1.
That's just the standard way that ARP works.
But we can have a problem here if that PC down at the bottom happens to be an attacker.
Now, this is different than the rogue DHCP server problem.
I rogue DHCP server more often than not is accidental.
It's not actually malicious. If you get man-in-the-middle ARP spoofing,
this is a malicious attack, almost always, by an attacker though.
So what's going to happen is, our attacker on the network here,
has to be in the same IP subnet.
So the IP address is 10.10.10.100.
And in our example, the attackers MAC address is 3.3.3. And the attacker sends out a Gratuitous
ARP.
A Gratuitous ARP is an ARP update which is not in response to an actual request.
So it's just the attacker saying, "Hey, I'm 10.10.10.1 and my MAC address is
3.3.3."
So it's spoofing the router's IP address of 10.10.10.1 and the PC will update its ARP cache saying,
"Oh, I got an update for my ARP entry 10.10.10.1 is not at 1.1.1,
it's actually at 3.3.3." And the attacker will also send out a Gratuitous ARP saying,
I'm 10.10.10.10 which is the PC and my MAC address again is 3.3.3. And the router will update its
ARP cache with a new entry for the PC.
So now what happens is when the PC sends traffic from IP address 10.10.10.10 to
10.10.10.1, it looks in its ARP cache and it sees to send that to
3.3.3.
So it goes to the attacker, not to the router.
The attacker can then send the traffic on to the router.
When the return traffic comes back, it's going to be coming from 10.10.10.1 at the router to
10.10.10.10
at he PC. Again, because the router's ARP cache was also poisoned, it sends the traffic to 3.3.3,
which is the attacker, and the attacker can then send it back to the PC.
So what happens now is, one of the benefits of a switch is that it only sends traffic on the relevant
port.
So if the attacker was trying to sniff that traffic, it never hits the attackers port.
So the attacker can't see it.
So it can't see the traffic.
But if the attacker does this man-in-the-middle ARP spoofing attack,
all the traffic goes through the attacker so they can sniff the traffic and see what that communication
says.
So it's a huge security issue.
Now, if the attacker isn't able to do man-in-the-middle like spoof to poison the ARP cache on both sides,
this can also be used for the denial of service attack. Rather than yet, say, the PC sending traffic to
the router rather than the attacker actually sending on to the router, the attacker could just drop
it.
So this can be used for man-in-the-middle sniffing.
It can also be used as denial of service.
Usually this will be a malicious attack.
The attacker can use a tool such as Cain and Abel, which is very easy to use to do this kind of attack.
So how do we stop that from happening?
The answer is DAI, Dynamic ARP Inspection. When you enable DHCP snooping,
so for DAI, you need to have enabled DHCP snooping already.
It can't just work on its own. When you have DHCP snooping,
the switch inspects the DHCP traffic and keeps track of which IP addresses were assigned to which MAC addresses.
The switch is in between the DHCP server and the PCs. So it can look at all that DHCP traffic.
When the client sends out a request, it can see what the client's MAC address and when the server
sends the response, it can see what IP address was assigned to that MAC address.
So the switch keeps track of the IP address to MAC address mappings.
For example, PC1 with MAC address 1.1.1,
it was assigned IP address 10.10.10.10 by the DHCP server. Then, if invalid ARP traffic
tries to pass through the switch,
for example, at attacker 3.3.3 saying that it is 10.10.10.10,
the switch can see that that MAC address does not map to that IP address.
It's invalid and it will drop the traffic. So it prevents attackers from spoofing ARP on your network.
For our configuration on this,
on Switch1, we say interface fa0/1, ip arp inspection trust
For host which do not get their IP address from DHCP,
obviously, the switch is not going to have a mapping of MAC address to IP address for them because
they didn't get it from the DHCP server.
So for those hosts such as your routers, firewalls, maybe servers, etc., you need to configure the switch to
trust them regardless.
So any non-DHCP clients,
configure those as trusted ports. For all of your other PCs which are getting their IP address from DHCP,
they're not going to be trusted.
The switch will do dynamic ARP inspection.
Where you enable that is global configuration, ip arp inspection vlan 10, for example.
So it's enabled at the VLAN level.
OK, so that was DAI, Dynamic ARP Inspection.